README.md, before:

# SpotifyPlus Card

[![GitHub Release][releases-shield]][releases] [![License][license-shield]](LICENSE) [![docs][docs-shield]][docs] [![hacs][hacs-shield]][hacs]

![Project Maintenance][maintenance-shield] [![BuyMeCoffee][buymecoffee-shield]][buymecoffee]

_Home Assistant UI card that supports features unique to the [SpotifyPlus](https://github.com/thlucas1/homeassistantcomponent_spotifyplus) custom integration._  
Extended support for the Spotify Service for use in Home Assistant.

## Features

* Spotify Media player interface with customizable controls and information display.
* Search Spotify catalog for all media types (tracks, playlists, albums, artists, shows, audiobooks, episodes, categories, etc).
* Display / Select your Spotify favorites: Albums, Artists, Audiobooks, Episodes, Shows, Tracks.
* Display / Select Spotify Connect device outputs.
* User-defined media item presets (both file and code edited supported).
* User-defined recommendation presets; play dynamically generated content based on user-defined criteria (e.g. energy, loudness, danceability, etc).
* Favorite status / add / remove support for all media types.
* View Player Queue information.
* Card Configuration Editor User-Interface for changing options.

and more!

## How it Looks

Here's a quick overview on what the card can look like.  The card is highly customizable when it comes to the information displayed.  Check out the [UI Dashboards wiki](https://github.com/thlucas1/spotifyplus_card/wiki/UI-Dashboards) page for more examples and YAML configuration.

#### Media Player Control / Actions (Masonry Mode)  
![masonry_player_track](./images/ui/masonry/player_track.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_player_track_actions](./images/ui/masonry/player_track_actions.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_player_audiobook](./images/ui/masonry/player_audiobook.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_player_audiobook_actions](./images/ui/masonry/player_audiobook_actions.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_player_show](./images/ui/masonry/player_show.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_player_show_actions](./images/ui/masonry/player_show_actions.png?v20241024) 

#### Media Favorites (Masonry Mode)  
![masonry_playlist_favorites](./images/ui/masonry/playlist_favorites.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_album_favorites](./images/ui/masonry/album_favorites.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_artist_favorites](./images/ui/masonry/artist_favorites.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_track_favorites](./images/ui/masonry/track_favorites.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_audiobook_favorites](./images/ui/masonry/audiobook_favorites.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_show_favorites](./images/ui/masonry/show_favorites.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_episode_favorites](./images/ui/masonry/episode_favorites.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_recently_played](./images/ui/masonry/recents.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_userpresets](./images/ui/masonry/userpresets.png?v20241024) 

#### Spotify Media Search (Masonry Mode)  
![masonry_search_playlists](./images/ui/masonry/search_playlists.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_search_albums](./images/ui/masonry/search_albums.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_search_artists](./images/ui/masonry/search_artists.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_search_tracks](./images/ui/masonry/search_tracks.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_search_audiobooks](./images/ui/masonry/search_audiobooks.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_search_shows](./images/ui/masonry/search_shows.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_search_episodes](./images/ui/masonry/search_episodes.png?v20241024) 

#### Devices / Actions (Masonry Mode)  
![masonry_devices](./images/ui/masonry/devices.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_devices_actions](./images/ui/masonry/devices_actions.png?v20241024) 

#### Editor UI  
![config_editor_general](./images/config/editor_general.png?v20241024) 

#### Card Picker
![config_cardpicker](./images/config/cardpicker.png?v20241024) 

## HACS Installation Instructions (recommended)

- On your Home Assistant sidebar menu, go to HACS > Frontend
- Click on the 3-dot overflow menu in the upper right, and select `custom repositories` item.
- Copy / paste `https://github.com/thlucas1/spotifyplus_card` in the Repository textbox and select `Dashboard` for the category entry.
- Click on `Add` to add the custom repository.
- You can then click on the `SpotifyPlus Card` repository entry (you may need to filter your list first to find the new entry).
- Click on `download` to start the download. It will install the card to your `/config/www/community/spotifyplus_card` directory.
- Go back on your dashboard and click on the icon at the right top corner then on Edit dashboard.
- You can now click on Add card in the bottom right corner and search for "Custom: SpotifyPlus Card".

## Manual Installation

- using the tool of choice open the directory (folder) for your HA configuration (where you find `configuration.yaml`).
- change directory to the `www` folder; if you don't have this directory, then create it.
- download the `spotifyplus_card.js` file from the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/thlucas1/spotifyplus_card) into your `<config>/www` folder.
- on your dashboard click on the icon at the right top corner then on Edit dashboard.
- click again on that icon and then on Manage resources.
- click on Add resource.
- copy and paste this: `/local/spotifyplus_card.js?v=1`.
- click on JavaScript Module then Create.
- go back and refresh your page.
- you can now click on Add card in the bottom right corner and search for "Custom: SpotifyPlus Card".
- after any update of the file you will have to edit `/local/spotifyplus_card.js?v=1` and change the version (e.g. `v=1`) to any higher number (e.g. `v=1.2`).


## More Information

Check out the following links for more information:

- [Card Wiki Home](https://github.com/thlucas1/spotifyplus_card/wiki)
- [Card Features](https://github.com/thlucas1/spotifyplus_card/wiki/Card-Features)
- [Card Configuration](https://github.com/thlucas1/spotifyplus_card/wiki/Configuration-Options)
- [Card UI Examples](https://github.com/thlucas1/spotifyplus_card/wiki/UI-Dashboards)
- [SpotifyPlus Integration](https://github.com/thlucas1/homeassistantcomponent_spotifyplus)


## Reporting a Problem

Submit a [Bug Report](https://github.com/thlucas1/spotifyplus_card/issues/new?assignees=&labels=bug&projects=&template=bug.yml) to bring the issue to my attention. I receive a notification when a new issue is opened, and will do my best to address it in a prompt and professional manner.

## Request a New Feature

Do you have an idea for a new feature that could be added to the integration?  Submit a [Feature Request](https://github.com/thlucas1/spotifyplus_card/issues/new?assignees=&labels=enhancement&projects=&template=feature_request.yml) to get your idea into the queue. I receive a notification when a new request is opened, and will do my best to turn your idea into the latest and greatest feature.

***

[releases-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/release/thlucas1/spotifyplus_card.svg?style=for-the-badge
[releases]: https://github.com/thlucas1/spotifyplus_card/releases
[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/thlucas1/spotifyplus_card.svg?style=for-the-badge
[docs]: https://github.com/thlucas1/spotifyplus_card/wiki
[docs-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Docs-Wiki-blue.svg?style=for-the-badge
[hacs]: https://github.com/hacs/integration
[hacs-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/HACS-Default-41BDF5.svg?style=for-the-badge

[maintenance-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/maintainer-Todd%20Lucas%20%40thlucas1-blue.svg?style=for-the-badge
[buymecoffee]: https://www.buymeacoffee.com/thlucas1
[buymecoffee-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/buy%20me%20a%20coffee-donate-yellow.svg?style=for-the-badge

Commit message:

[ 1.0.40 ] * Added title formatter option `{medialist.filteritemcount}`; Number of filtered items in the media list.

README.md, after:

# SpotifyPlus Card

[![GitHub Release][releases-shield]][releases] [![License][license-shield]](LICENSE) [![docs][docs-shield]][docs] [![hacs][hacs-shield]][hacs]

![Project Maintenance][maintenance-shield] [![BuyMeCoffee][buymecoffee-shield]][buymecoffee]

_Home Assistant UI card that supports features unique to the [SpotifyPlus](https://github.com/thlucas1/homeassistantcomponent_spotifyplus) custom integration._  
Extended support for the Spotify Service for use in Home Assistant.

## Features

* Spotify Media player interface with customizable controls and information display.
* Search Spotify catalog for all media types (tracks, playlists, albums, artists, shows, audiobooks, episodes, categories, etc).
* Display / Select your Spotify favorites: Albums, Artists, Audiobooks, Episodes, Shows, Tracks.
* Display / Select Spotify Connect device outputs.
* User-defined media item presets (both file and code edited supported).
* User-defined recommendation presets; play dynamically generated content based on user-defined criteria (e.g. energy, loudness, danceability, etc).
* Favorite status / add / remove support for all media types.
* View Player Queue information.
* Card Configuration Editor User-Interface for changing options.

and more!

## How it Looks

Here's a quick overview on what the card can look like.  The card is highly customizable when it comes to the information displayed.  Check out the [UI Dashboards wiki](https://github.com/thlucas1/spotifyplus_card/wiki/UI-Dashboards) page for more examples and YAML configuration.

#### Media Player Control / Actions (Masonry Mode)  
![masonry_player_track](./images/ui/masonry/player_track.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_player_track_actions](./images/ui/masonry/player_track_actions.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_player_audiobook](./images/ui/masonry/player_audiobook.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_player_audiobook_actions](./images/ui/masonry/player_audiobook_actions.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_player_show](./images/ui/masonry/player_show.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_player_show_actions](./images/ui/masonry/player_show_actions.png?v20241024) 

#### Media Favorites (Masonry Mode)  
![masonry_playlist_favorites](./images/ui/masonry/playlist_favorites.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_album_favorites](./images/ui/masonry/album_favorites.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_artist_favorites](./images/ui/masonry/artist_favorites.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_track_favorites](./images/ui/masonry/track_favorites.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_audiobook_favorites](./images/ui/masonry/audiobook_favorites.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_show_favorites](./images/ui/masonry/show_favorites.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_episode_favorites](./images/ui/masonry/episode_favorites.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_recently_played](./images/ui/masonry/recents.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_userpresets](./images/ui/masonry/userpresets.png?v20241024) 

#### Spotify Media Search (Masonry Mode)  
![masonry_search_playlists](./images/ui/masonry/search_playlists.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_search_albums](./images/ui/masonry/search_albums.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_search_artists](./images/ui/masonry/search_artists.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_search_tracks](./images/ui/masonry/search_tracks.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_search_audiobooks](./images/ui/masonry/search_audiobooks.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_search_shows](./images/ui/masonry/search_shows.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_search_episodes](./images/ui/masonry/search_episodes.png?v20241024) 

#### Devices / Actions (Masonry Mode)  
![masonry_devices](./images/ui/masonry/devices.png?v20241024) 
![masonry_devices_actions](./images/ui/masonry/devices_actions.png?v20241024) 

#### Editor UI  
![config_editor_general](./images/config/editor_general.png?v20241024) 

#### Card Picker
![config_cardpicker](./images/config/cardpicker.png?v20241024) 

## HACS Installation Instructions (recommended)

- On your Home Assistant sidebar menu, go to HACS > Frontend
- Click on the 3-dot overflow menu in the upper right, and select `custom repositories` item.
- Copy / paste `https://github.com/thlucas1/spotifyplus_card` in the Repository textbox and select `Dashboard` for the category entry.
- Click on `Add` to add the custom repository.
- You can then click on the `SpotifyPlus Card` repository entry (you may need to filter your list first to find the new entry).
- Click on `download` to start the download. It will install the card to your `/config/www/community/spotifyplus_card` directory.
- Go back on your dashboard and click on the icon at the right top corner then on Edit dashboard.
- You can now click on Add card in the bottom right corner and search for "Custom: SpotifyPlus Card".

## Manual Installation

- using the tool of choice open the directory (folder) for your HA configuration (where you find `configuration.yaml`).
- change directory to the `www` folder; if you don't have this directory, then create it.
- download the `spotifyplus_card.js` file from the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/thlucas1/spotifyplus_card) into your `<config>/www` folder.
- on your dashboard click on the icon at the right top corner then on Edit dashboard.
- click again on that icon and then on Manage resources.
- click on Add resource.
- copy and paste this: `/local/spotifyplus_card.js?v=1.0.40` (change version number to match what was downloaded).
- click on `JavaScript Module` then Create.
- go back and refresh your page.
- you can now click on Add card in the bottom right corner and search for "Custom: SpotifyPlus Card".
- after any update of the file you will have to edit `/local/spotifyplus_card.js?v=1` and change the version (e.g. `v=1`) to any higher number (e.g. `v=1.2`).


## More Information

Check out the following links for more information:

- [Card Wiki Home](https://github.com/thlucas1/spotifyplus_card/wiki)
- [Card Features](https://github.com/thlucas1/spotifyplus_card/wiki/Card-Features)
- [Card Configuration](https://github.com/thlucas1/spotifyplus_card/wiki/Configuration-Options)
- [Card UI Examples](https://github.com/thlucas1/spotifyplus_card/wiki/UI-Dashboards)
- [SpotifyPlus Integration](https://github.com/thlucas1/homeassistantcomponent_spotifyplus)


## Reporting a Problem

Submit a [Bug Report](https://github.com/thlucas1/spotifyplus_card/issues/new?assignees=&labels=bug&projects=&template=bug.yml) to bring the issue to my attention. I receive a notification when a new issue is opened, and will do my best to address it in a prompt and professional manner.

## Request a New Feature

Do you have an idea for a new feature that could be added to the integration?  Submit a [Feature Request](https://github.com/thlucas1/spotifyplus_card/issues/new?assignees=&labels=enhancement&projects=&template=feature_request.yml) to get your idea into the queue. I receive a notification when a new request is opened, and will do my best to turn your idea into the latest and greatest feature.

***

[releases-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/release/thlucas1/spotifyplus_card.svg?style=for-the-badge
[releases]: https://github.com/thlucas1/spotifyplus_card/releases
[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/thlucas1/spotifyplus_card.svg?style=for-the-badge
[docs]: https://github.com/thlucas1/spotifyplus_card/wiki
[docs-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Docs-Wiki-blue.svg?style=for-the-badge
[hacs]: https://github.com/hacs/integration
[hacs-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/HACS-Default-41BDF5.svg?style=for-the-badge

[maintenance-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/maintainer-Todd%20Lucas%20%40thlucas1-blue.svg?style=for-the-badge
[buymecoffee]: https://www.buymeacoffee.com/thlucas1
[buymecoffee-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/buy%20me%20a%20coffee-donate-yellow.svg?style=for-the-badge
